
Fantasy premier league is an online game where players assemble a team of real-life football (soccer) players from the English Premier League. The player’s team scores points based on actual statistical performances or their perceived contribution on field of play of their chosen players. Each week, players score points based on the minutes played, goals scored, assists in goals, keeping clean sheets and other key statistics. The points of the players are based on their own performance and sometimes the performance of real team they played for. 
The dataset we selected was a collection of player statistic from the past 3 seasons (years). The dataset contained weekly record of all players in the premier league. The dataset had player stats like goals scored, assists made, and total points scored on a given week.
The main goal of this project to experiment with different predictive models on the selected premier league players dataset and learn which one would produce the best results.
We wanted to see if our models would help us determine how well the player would do in a given week. For the scope of the project we decided to focus on goals scored and total points as the determining variables to decide how well the player performs. So, in the project we focused on applying same modeling techniques on 2 different target variables separately. Then, we examined the results to see if changing the target had significant improvements. 

`Source of Data`

The raw dataset was collected from a GitHub repository created and maintained by user “vaastav”. Vaastav states that the data provided is property of Fantasy Premier League and Understat. The GitHub repository had data from the past 3 seasons along with data from current season as well. 
We looked at a few other alternative datasets, but we decided that this was the best data for out project. Other datasets we came across did not have as many rows and did not go as far as 3 seasons back either. We could only find another dataset that was for only the 2018-2019 season. This dataset seems to have the greatest number of weekly data and seems to be well maintained as well which made our choice easier.
The data for each season was found in separate folders. Each seasonal folder had separate csv files of weekly player data for the season. So, each of the folders except current season folder had 38 csv files since there are 38 game weeks in a season.
Data Source and Preparation
Our first step was to download the repository and combine all the data so that we could get it in one file, so that we could load it in Jupyter. We concatenated all the files in each folder using `cat` command and then combined all the combined files into one final file named 'complete_gws.csv' using the same command. The files were named as gw1, gw2 and so on. So, we used “cat gw*>2016_gw.csv” command to concatenate game week data of 2016. We did the same on other folder as well and then finally combined these yearly game week csv files. After combining all the files, we ended up with 55 columns and 72,785 rows of data. Out of the 55 columns there were only a few categorical variables. The “name” of the player, “kickoff_time” and “kickoff_time_formatted” were the only non-numeric columns in the data. 
After getting the csv file ready, we tried to read the file in Jupyter using pandas dataset. We ran into some issued getting the file loaded to data frame as the names of some the players contained special characters. After some research we found that the file was encoded in "ISO-8859-1". We were finally able to load the dataset to pandas dataset by using “pd.read_csv('complete_gws.csv', encoding="ISO-8859-1")”. After loading the dataset, we dropped the categorical column name and the other 2 date (“kickoff_time” and “kickoff_time_formatted”) columns from the pandas dataset. We also discovered the data from row 67936 did not have all the columns. This was because the data from the current season had different rows that previous years data. Therefore, we had to drop rows below 67936 as well.
